[KOGITO-8305] - [KSW-Guides] Deploying on OpenShift Clusters (#346)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/cloud/quarkus/deploying-on-openshift.adoc

= Deploying your {product_name} application on OpenShift
:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Deploying Serverless Application on Minikube
:keywords: kogito, workflow, quarkus, serverless, kn, oc, openshift
:table-caption: Data Set
// envs for common content
:registry: OpenShift's
:cluster_kind: OpenShift with Red Hat OpenShift Serverless is ready
:k8s_registry: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000
:knative_procedure: link:https://docs.openshift.com/serverless/1.28/install/installing-knative-eventing.html[Knative Eventing]
:default_namespace: kogito-serverless
:command_line_tool: oc
:command_line_tool_name: OpenShift CLI
:quarkus-k8s-plugin: quarkus-openshift
:platform: OpenShift
:container_push: This property should be removed if deploying on OpenShist Clusters
// links

> :ocp_local_url: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_local/2.17

Author: Not sure, it is not used by other documents.

> :ocp_local_url: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_local/2.17

Author: hmm

:ocp_local_url_install: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_local/2.17/html/getting_started_guide/installation_gsg

> :ocp_cli_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-about-cli_cli-developer-commands

Author: same

> :ocp_cli_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-about-cli_cli-developer-commands

Author: k

can be used on any OpenShift 4.x version that has support for OpenShift Serverless.

[[proc-install-openshift-local]]
== Installing OpenShift Local

If You already have an OpenShift cluster available you can skip this section.
But, if you do not have or want to have it locally, you can follow these link:{ocp_local_url_install}[installation steps].

Once you have OpenShift Local running, proceed to the next topic.
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you are running OpenShift Local on Mac with M1 processors, you might not find the OpenShift Serverless Operator available.
====

Before proceeding further, make sure that you have access to the OpenShift cluster with Serverless available and the
OpenShift Serverless operator is properly installed, to do this, please follow these link:{ocp_swf_install_url}[steps].

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you get error messages related to `Istio`, this link:{knative_istio_issue_url}[article] might be helpful.
====

[[proc-deploy-sw-application-openshift]]
== Deploying your workflow application on OpenShift

Once `Knative Serving` is ready, you can initiate the process of deploying your {product_name} application on OpenShift.

// shared app req

> include::../common/_deploy_workflow_application_requisites.adoc[]

Author: OpenShift Knative Eventing?

> include::../common/_deploy_workflow_application_requisites.adoc[]

Reviewer: I mean, a short introduction on `Openshift Serverless` would be great. so the user is not confused.

> include::../common/_deploy_workflow_application_requisites.adoc[]

Reviewer: sorry just saw that sentence
```
This document describes how to deploy a Kogito Serverless Workflow application using a OpenShift cluster, along with a procedure to run the OpenShift Serverless Operator, which is based on Knative.
```
Should be fine. thx

> * Create the namespace `{default_namespace}`.

Author: sure

[NOTE]
====

> You can use the native image due to the faster startup.

Author: yes, we do.
updated.

====

=== Preparing the OpenShift's Registry
OpenShift comes with a registry where you can push your images built locally to be deployed.

First, let's check if the Registry is already exposed, to do that, check if the route is exposed:
[source,shell]
----
OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL=$(oc get route default-route -n openshift-image-registry --template='{{ .spec.host }}')
----
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL` environment variable will be used in the next sections.
====

> This command should assign to the `OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL` variable the publicly accessible URL for the registry. If it does not return it, it does mean that it is not exposed, to expose the registry follow link:{ocp_expose_registry_url}[these] steps.

Author: sounds good.
updated, please take a look.

* Your xref:cloud/quarkus/build-workflow-image-with-quarkus-cli.adoc[{product_name} application] is ready to use.
* link:{ocp_cli_url}[OpenShift CLI] is installed.
* link:{ocp_kn_cli_url}[Knative CLI] is installed.
* xref:tooling/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.adoc[Knative workflow CLI] is installed.
* link:{podman_install_url}[Podman]
** If you are using link:{docker_install_url}[Docker], you might need to update the commands accordingly.
* (Optional) link:{quarkus_cli_url}[Quarkus CLI] is installed.

For the following steps we will be using the link:{ocp_local_url}[OpenShift Local]. However, the steps described here can be used on any OpenShift 4.x version that has support for OpenShift Serverless.

[[proc-install-openshift-local]]
== Installing OpenShift Local

_If you already have an OpenShift cluster available you can skip this section._

But, if you do not have or want to have it locally, you can follow these link:{ocp_local_url_install}[installation steps].

Once you have OpenShift Local running, proceed to the next topic.
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you are running OpenShift Local on Mac with M1 processors, you might not find the OpenShift Serverless Operator available.
====

> Before proceeding further, make sure that you have access to the OpenShift cluster with Serverless available and the OpenShift Serverless operator is properly installed. To do this, please follow these link:{ocp_swf_install_url}[steps].

Author: Needs a rephrase, applied.

First, let's check if the Registry is already exposed, to do that, check if the route is exposed:
[source,shell]
----
OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL=$(oc get route default-route -n openshift-image-registry --template='{{ .spec.host }}')
----
[IMPORTANT]
====
The `OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL` environment variable will be used in the next sections.
====

This command should assign to the `OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL` variable the publicly accessible URL for the registry. If it does not return it, it does mean that it is not exposed, to expose the registry follow link:{ocp_expose_registry_url}[these] steps.
it does mean that it is not exposed, to expose the registry follow link:{ocp_expose_registry_url}[these] steps.

The OpenShift's registry requires you to be logged in to be allowed to push Container Images. If you are already logged in the cluster you can use your token to authenticate in the OpenShift's registry. To log in, save the URL from the command above:

.Log in to the OpenShift's registry
[source,shell]
----
podman login -u <USERNAME> -p $(oc whoami -t) --tls-verify=false $OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL
----
If everything is working, you should get the *Login Succeeded!* message.

> The next step is to deploy your workflow application and execute it.

Reviewer: we should explain to push the image to the OpenShift registry

Author: +1, done

You can read the further the next sections which explain different approaches deploy your {product_name} application, as such:

> 

Reviewer: In the included parts, we write about the `image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000` but we never explain where it does come from and this could be confusing for the user.

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you are running OpenShift Local on Mac with M1 processors, you might not find the OpenShift Serverless Operator available.
====

Before proceeding further, make sure that you have access to the OpenShift cluster, the OpenShift Serverless operator properly installed and the `Knative Serving` is ready for use. For more information on each topic, please refer the following guides:

* Installing link:{ocp_swf_install_url}[OpenShift Serverless Operator].
* Installing link:{ocp_knative_serving_url}[Knative Serving].
* Installing link:{ocp_knative_eventing_url}[Knative Eventing]. Knative Eventing is not required for this guide, however it is important to mention how to install it, if required by your {product_name} application.

[TIP]
====
If you get error messages related to `Istio`, this link:{knative_istio_issue_url}[article] might be helpful.
====

[[proc-deploy-sw-application-openshift]]
== Deploying your workflow application on OpenShift

Once `Knative Serving` is ready, you can initiate the process of deploying your {product_name} application on OpenShift.

// shared app req
include::../common/_deploy_workflow_application_requisites.adoc[]

> . After checking the prerequisites, prepare the project that will be used to deploy your application

Author: nice catch, fixed.

= Deploying your {product_name} application on OpenShift
:compat-mode!:
// Metadata:
:description: Deploying Serverless Application on Minikube
:keywords: kogito, workflow, quarkus, serverless, kn, oc, openshift
:table-caption: Data Set
// envs for common content
:registry: OpenShift's
:cluster_kind: OpenShift with Red Hat OpenShift Serverless is ready
:k8s_registry: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000
:knative_procedure: link:{ocp_knative_serving_url}[Knative Serving]
:default_namespace: kogito-serverless
:command_line_tool: oc
:command_line_tool_name: OpenShift CLI
:quarkus-k8s-plugin: quarkus-openshift
:platform: OpenShift

> :container_push: This property should be removed if deploying on OpenShist Clusters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:container_push: This property should be removed if deploying on OpenShift Clusters
```

// shared app req
include::../common/_deploy_workflow_application_requisites.adoc[]

After checking the prerequisites, prepare the project that will be used to deploy your application:

.Procedure
. Create project
+
--
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
{command_line_tool} new-project {default_namespace}
----
--
+
. Set the Kubernetes context to the newly created namespace using the following command:
+
--
.Set OpenShift current project
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
{command_line_tool} project {default_namespace}
----
--

[TIP]
====
You can use the link:build-workflow-image-with-quarkus-cli.html#proc-building-serverless-workflow-application-using-native-image[native image] for a faster startup.
====

=== Preparing the OpenShift's Registry
OpenShift comes with a registry where you can push your images built locally to be deployed.

First, let's check if the Registry is already exposed, to do that, check if the route is exposed:

.Check whether the OpenShift registry is exposed
[source,shell]
----
oc get route default-route -n openshift-image-registry --template='{{ .spec.host }}'
----

> If no information or a error is returned, it does mean that it is not exposed, to expose the registry follow link:{ocp_expose_registry_url}[these] steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no information or an error is returned, it does mean that the registry is not exposed. To expose the registry follow link:{ocp_expose_registry_url}[these] steps.
```

.Log in to the OpenShift's registry
[source,shell]
----
podman login -u <USERNAME> -p $(oc whoami -t) --tls-verify=false $OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL
----
If everything is working, you should get the *Login Succeeded!* message.

.Pushing {product_name} Application To OpenShift's registry
First step, get the Container Image tag built previously:
[source,shell]
----
podman images
----

With the Container Image, use the following command to tag the application image with the OpenShift's registry and
the namespace being used:
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
podman tag <IMAGE_TAG> $OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL/{default_namespace}/serverless-workflow-greeting-quarkus:1.0
----

Then, push:
[source,shell,subs="attributes+"]
----
podman push $OPENSHIFT_REGISTRY_URL/{default_namespace}/serverless-workflow-greeting-quarkus:1.0
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
The {default_namespace} is the current project/namespace created earlier to deploy your {product_name} application.
====

The next step is to deploy your workflow application and execute it.
You can read further the next sections which explain different approaches to deploy your {product_name} application:

[NOTE]
====

> In the next steps you will notice the value **{k8s_registry}** being used, it is the internal OpenShift's registry address from where the images of the deployments will pulled from. Note that, the Container Image pushed in the previous step will be queried as  `{k8s_registry}/{default_namespace}/serverless-workflow-greeting-quarkus:1.0`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next steps you will notice the value **{k8s_registry}** being used. It is the internal OpenShift's registry address where the images of the deployments will pulled from. Note that, the Container Image pushed in the previous step will be queried as  `{k8s_registry}/{default_namespace}/serverless-workflow-greeting-quarkus:1.0`
```

to run the OpenShift Serverless, which is based on the Knative.

.Prerequisites
* Your {product_name} application is ready to use. +
For more information about building the application container, +
see xref:cloud/quarkus/build-workflow-image-with-quarkus-cli.adoc[Building workflow images using Quarkus CLI].
* OpenShift CLI is installed.+
For more information, see link:{ocp_cli_url}[Getting started with the OpenShift CLI].
* Knative CLI is installed. +
For more information, see link:{ocp_kn_cli_url}[Install the Knative CLI].
* Knative workflow CLI is installed. +
For more information see xref:tooling/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.adoc[Serverless Workflow plug-in for Knative CLI].
* (Optional) Quarkus CLI is installed. +
For more information, see link:{quarkus_cli_url}[Building Quarkus Apps with Quarkus command line interface (CLI)].

For the following steps we will be using the link:{ocp_local_url}[OpenShift Local]. However, the steps described here
can be used on any OpenShift 4.x version that has support for OpenShift Serverless.

[[proc-install-openshift-local]]
== Installing OpenShift Local

> If You already have a OpenShift cluster available you can skip this section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If You already have an OpenShift cluster available you can skip this section.
```

> But, if you don't have or want to have it locally, please proceed further with this link:{ocp_local_url_install}[installation steps].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
But, if you do not have or want to have it locally, you can follow these link:{ocp_local_url_install}[installation steps].
```

[[proc-verify-serverless-openshift]]
== Verifying Serverless availability on OpenShift

To make sure OpenShift Serverless is available, it can be checked with the commands below:

.Verify if Serverless CSV is available
[source,shell]
----
oc get csv | grep serverless-operator
NAME                          DISPLAY                         VERSION     REPLACES                      PHASE
serverless-operator.v1.28.0   Red Hat OpenShift Serverless    1.28.0      serverless-operator.v1.27.1   Succeeded
----
As the CSV (Cluster Resource Definition) is global, we don't need to specify the namespace for this command.

If the result is similar to the one above, we are ready to proceed, otherwise, we can check the `openshift-serverless`
namespace to see the Pods' status, example:

.Verify if Serverless Pods
[source,shell]
----
oc get pods -n openshift-serverless
NAME                                         READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
knative-openshift-5c7f985d55-4zggl           1/1     Running   0          22d
knative-openshift-ingress-864c78b45c-mshpr   1/1     Running   0          22d
knative-operator-webhook-8675c49975-k6wvn    1/1     Running   0          22d
----

> When everything is ok, we can go ahead and make sure that the Knative Serving is configured, for this example only it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When everything is ok, you can go ahead and make sure that the Knative Serving is configured, it is sufficient for this example only. But for more complex examples, you must have the
link:{ocp_knative_eventing_url}[Knative Eventing] configured as well.
```

will be enough, but for more complex examples, you might be required to have the
link:{ocp_knative_eventing_url}[Knative Eventing] configured as well.

To check if `Knative Serving` is deployed, execute the following command:

[source,shell]
----
oc get knativeserving.operator.knative.dev/knative-serving -n knative-serving --template='{{range .status.conditions}}{{printf "%s=%s\n" .type .status}}{{end}}'
----

The result should me similar to:
[source,properties]
----
DependenciesInstalled=True
DeploymentsAvailable=True
InstallSucceeded=True
Ready=True
----

> If you got 'False' as result for the items above, it means that `Serving` is not fully installed, to install, deploy

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you got 'False' as a result for the items above, it means that `Serving` is not fully installed, to install, deploy
```

[source,shell]
----
oc get pods  -n knative-serving
NAME                                     READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
activator-5bdfdbcf44-q7cjt               2/2     Running   0          23h
activator-5bdfdbcf44-wct6w               2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-6dff958db8-rf6t6              2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-6dff958db8-zrmp4              2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-hpa-5db8575dbc-8nhhg          2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-hpa-5db8575dbc-h8lfq          2/2     Running   0          23h
controller-7649d68db6-x9qnb              2/2     Running   0          23h
controller-7649d68db6-z5q54              2/2     Running   0          23h
domain-mapping-db4fcb48c-jzpqr           2/2     Running   0          23h
domain-mapping-db4fcb48c-n8tj6           2/2     Running   0          23h
domainmapping-webhook-6896bb6475-bvgf6   2/2     Running   0          23h
domainmapping-webhook-6896bb6475-fqlm9   2/2     Running   0          23h
webhook-85b79f6c95-q5sld                 2/2     Running   0          23h
webhook-85b79f6c95-wfc54                 2/2     Running   0          23h
----

[IMPORTANT]
====

> If you get error messages related to `Istio`, this link:{knative_istio_issue_url}[article] might be helpful.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you get error messages related to `Istio`, this link:{knative_istio_issue_url}[article] might be helpful.
```

====

[IMPORTANT]
====
From now on, we will be using the `kogito-serverless` namespace. To create execute:
[source,shell]
----
oc new-project kogito-serverless
----
====

[[proc-deploy-sw-application-openshift]]
== Deploying your workflow application on OpenShift

Once `Knative Serving` is ready, you can initiate the process of deploying your {product_name} application on OpenShift.

// shared app req
include::../common/_deploy_workflow_application_requisites.adoc[]

[NOTE]
====
You can use the native image due to the faster startup.
====

=== Preparing the OpenShift's Registry

> OpenShift comes with a Registry where you can push your images built locally to be deployed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
OpenShift comes with a registry where you can push your images built locally to be deployed.
```

:k8s_registry: image-registry.openshift-image-registry.svc:5000
:default_namespace: kogito-serverless
:command_line_tool: oc
:command_line_tool_name: OpenShift CLI
:quarkus-k8s-plugin: quarkus-openshift
:platform: OpenShift
:container_push: This property should be removed if deploying on OpenShist Clusters
// links
:ocp_local_url: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_local/2.17
:ocp_local_url_install: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_openshift_local/2.17/html/getting_started_guide/installation_gsg
:ocp_cli_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html#cli-about-cli_cli-developer-commands
:ocp_kn_cli_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/serverless/install/installing-kn.html
:ocp_knative_eventing_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/serverless/install/installing-knative-eventing.html
:ocp_expose_registry_url: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.12/registry/securing-exposing-registry.html
:knative_istio_issue_url: https://access.redhat.com/solutions/4791871

> // ###### Note to the reviewers, should we mention OSL? Or just OpenShift Serverless with Knative is enough?

Reviewer 4: Just OpenShift is fine.

This document describes how to deploy a {product_name} application using a OpenShift cluster, along with a procedure

> to run the OpenShift Serverless, which is based on the Knative.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to run the OpenShift Serverless, which is based on Knative.
```

.Prerequisites
* Your {product_name} application is ready to use. +
For more information about building the application container, +
see xref:cloud/quarkus/build-workflow-image-with-quarkus-cli.adoc[Building workflow images using Quarkus CLI].
* OpenShift CLI is installed.+
For more information, see link:{ocp_cli_url}[Getting started with the OpenShift CLI].
* Knative CLI is installed. +
For more information, see link:{ocp_kn_cli_url}[Install the Knative CLI].
* Knative workflow CLI is installed. +
For more information see xref:tooling/kn-plugin-workflow-overview.adoc[Serverless Workflow plug-in for Knative CLI].
* (Optional) Quarkus CLI is installed. +
For more information, see link:{quarkus_cli_url}[Building Quarkus Apps with Quarkus command line interface (CLI)].

> 

Reviewer 4: Instead of repeating "For more information", just link the article to the prereq.

For the following steps we will be using the link:{ocp_local_url}[OpenShift Local]. However, the steps described here
can be used on any OpenShift 4.x version that has support for OpenShift Serverless.

[[proc-install-openshift-local]]
== Installing OpenShift Local

If You already have an OpenShift cluster available you can skip this section.
But, if you do not have or want to have it locally, you can follow these link:{ocp_local_url_install}[installation steps].

Once you have OpenShift Local running, proceed to the next topic.
[IMPORTANT]
====
If you are running OpenShift Local on Mac M1 processors, you might not find the OpenShift Serverless Operator available.
====

> Before proceeding further, make sure that you have access to the OpenShift cluster with Serverless available.

Reviewer 4: Can you add a link to the `Serverless` official docs?

[[proc-verify-serverless-openshift]]

> == Verifying Serverless availability on OpenShift

Reviewer 4: You can remove this section and link to their docs instead.

autoscaler-6dff958db8-rf6t6              2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-6dff958db8-zrmp4              2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-hpa-5db8575dbc-8nhhg          2/2     Running   0          23h
autoscaler-hpa-5db8575dbc-h8lfq          2/2     Running   0          23h
controller-7649d68db6-x9qnb              2/2     Running   0          23h
controller-7649d68db6-z5q54              2/2     Running   0          23h
domain-mapping-db4fcb48c-jzpqr           2/2     Running   0          23h
domain-mapping-db4fcb48c-n8tj6           2/2     Running   0          23h
domainmapping-webhook-6896bb6475-bvgf6   2/2     Running   0          23h
domainmapping-webhook-6896bb6475-fqlm9   2/2     Running   0          23h
webhook-85b79f6c95-q5sld                 2/2     Running   0          23h
webhook-85b79f6c95-wfc54                 2/2     Running   0          23h
----

[IMPORTANT]
====
If you get error messages related to `Istio`, this link:{knative_istio_issue_url}[article] might be helpful.
====

[IMPORTANT]
====
From now on, we will be using the `kogito-serverless` namespace. To create execute:
[source,shell]
----
oc new-project kogito-serverless
----

> ====

Reviewer 4: Let's not have two of the same box following each other. I think the last information is unnecessary to be in a box. But we are removing this section anyway if you follow my other suggestion...
